https://keybase.io/

Keybase is a key directory that maps social media identities to encryption keys 
(including, but not limited to PGP keys) in a publicly auditable manner. Additionally
it offers an end-to-end encrypted chat and cloud storage system, called Keybase Chat and the Keybase Filesystem respectively.

Overall: Keybase is a good platform for those who are concerned about security, more notably for business people.
Pros: Keybase is an all in one place for team collaboration similar to Slack, cloud storage with up to 250GB of free space, a git version
control system and a cryptocurrency wallet (stellar lumens) all with the power of 256-bit encryption technology. This means anything that
Keybase holds is nearly impossible to decrypt (even if the servers are hacked). You can also prove your social media identity using Keybase
(not account verification). The chat feature is best if you are concerned about the security of your messages especially if you want to manage a
team. You can also create sub-teams and channels like in slack. The cloud storage falls under three category, public files - which is publicly 
visible, private files - which we can use to store files privately and finally team files - visible to a group of people who are members of a team
created by us. The storage is not expandable as of now, but the company is planning to introduce purchasable storage soon. Unlike other git repository 
hosting services, Keybase' git is fully encrypted which makes it more secure. Keybase also comes with an integrated Stellar lumens cryptocurrency wallet 
through which we can also send other popular cryptocurrencies. They also have a really good documentation. The way they demonstrate their features is 
really cool. Another cool feature is that we can also host simple website in the public folder. The website could be accessed under yourusername.keybase.pub domain name.

Cons: It could be a really strange application for those who are not aware of cryptography and encryption technologies. Keybase seems a bit intimidating at first. 
It takes some time to get used to the features and functionalities. You may find it difficult to find your contacts on Keybase due to the same reasons. Also sometimes
the application seems to slow down a bit when encrypting big files.
