Giant third party HR companies like Pipl use scraped social media posts to vet and exclude people as part of what they do - 
called someone a bad word on twitter from a phone that's linked to your id and address? Well, with enough data points cross 
referenced from different sources, they can figure you out. Deleted your posts? Closed your account? Too bad, they are relying on
old scrapes, not just new ones. The question is, why would they bother? And under what circumstance? 

Big data gathering is not a problem until the government thinks you did something seriously wrong and then go back through all your
shit. Same goes with working for giant corps that use all of that data to vet you. More and more companies are using that stuff to 
determine who gets to work for them and who doesn't. And even if you're not a dissident, they could glean from your shopping history 
that you have some sort of illness or addiction or another, and use that to exclude you from the hiring process without ever telling you.
They could even do some weird meta analysis on the data and find out what successful employees spending habits are like vs unsuccessful, 
and use that as an exclusion point - without ever even having to know why those trends exist or not. They can't be racist, but they can do that. 
But also consider where you're going to be working in such a company, if you're packing boxes or working in a warehouse no one gives a shit. But
if you're applying to HR, or IT or an executive or managerial position or anything that pays close to 6 figures and doesn't involve menial labor 
they're probably going to spend a couple grand to vet you.

There are privacy laws coming into effect all the time, but they are often pretty weak.
Some of them guarantee your "right to disappear" - a process that involves writing hundreds 
of letters and emails to various companies requesting your data be destroyed. 

Big data is also convenient, you get lots of cool and relevant browsing and 
shopping recommendations from various sites and ads - if you don't work to turn 
that shit off. So big data gathering doesn't matter - until it does,and when it does, it will most likely be used to fuck you over some how.

Cover time stamps on messages too
